Sugar - www.sugarlabs.org:

    Sugar is a learning platform focused towards children to provide quality education
    and foster critical thinking by exposing them to technolgy.
    Sugar runs on most computers, LIVE USBs, and XO laptops.
    Activities are the main methods of education in sugar.
    There are 3.5 million XO laptops, each with a version of sugar that runs 25 different
    language with tens of thousands of activities each teaching a different lesson.

OLPC - One Laptop Per Child - one.laptop.org:

    Mission and Principals:
        "We aim to provide each child with a rugged, low-cost, low-power, connected laptop.
        To this end, we have designed hardware, content, and software for collaborative,
        joyful, and self-empowering learning. With access to this type of tool, children
        are engaged in thier own education, and learn, share, and create together.
        They become connected to eah other, to the world and to a brighter future.

        Provides OLPC XO laptops to children worldwide in 'deployments'
        Current deployments include: Peru, Uruguay, Argentina, Mexico, and Rwanda.
        New project start ups include: Gaza, Afghanistan, Haiti, Etheopia, and Mongolia


    Activities:

        Main method of educating students.  These 'activities' are comparable to 'apps'
        on any mobile device (tablet, smartphone, etc..).
        Developed with a singular purpose, activities fall into the categories of games,
        tools, and organizational apps.  Each of these activities come together to provide
        students with a unique computer interaction.  The documentation and source code for
        developing activities is completely free and open source, all the activities are 
        coded in python which is another completely free and open source programming
        language.

        Addtions:

            We created a Sugar Activity QuickStart package that is available for download
            from github at " https://github.com/FOSSRIT/SAQS-sugar-activity-quick-start- ".
            We made this quickstart becuase the sugar activitiy tutorial is outdated.
            
        Activities produced from FOSS@RIT

            SkyTime:A 2nd to 4th grade time telling game aimed to educate students about
                    the correlation between analog clocks and digital time.  Created in
                    the Humanitarian Free and Open Source Cource offered at the 
                    Rochester Institute of Technology. Further developed during the 
                    National Day of Civic Hacking. Accepted and presented in 
                    Washington, DC. as a "White House Champion of Change" project.
                    Currently localized in three different languages, with more on the 
                    way.

            Lemonade Stand: A 4th grade and up game, aimed to educate students how to run 
                            small buisness. This includes making optimal change, preparing 
                            inventory, buying items, upgrading tools, and generating 
                            profit. Curently, we have updated the entire user interface
                            by reducing information overload, using new images, and adding
                            new features. Features include better visual feedback, 
                            localization in 3 different languages, different stands, 
                            and the implementation of an Open Badges Achievement System.
                            

            Sash: An activity designed to hold and host our Open Badges Achievement System.
                  It displays the badges that the user has earned from each activity that 
                  has badges imported.  Once in Sash, badges may be sorted and ordered by
                  name, date, or activity.


    Datastore - "wiki.laptop.org/go/Sugar.datastore.datastore" :
        
        The Sugar Datastore is the way activity data gets saved to the Journal activity in
        Sugar.  The Journal activity stores the activity sessions in an ordered list where
        the user can resume thier activity from the point where the left off.  This saving
        process consists of creating a datastore object and storing various metadata into 
        that object.

            Badges: Badges are made by checking to see if an activity has made a datastore
                    object, (if not make one) and saving specific metadata to that object.
                    Conditionals then check against that saved data to see if an 
                    achievement has been compeleted, and thus awards a badge. Once awarded
                    the badge shows up in Sash for the user to view and sort.



